# C++ Style Guide Variation 2

Our C++ style guide Variation 2 is based on a series of trial and error and the below mentioned ones have worked for us so far. We derive heavily from already established styles present in the C++ industry.

## Filenames

All directories, translation units (\*.cpp) and header files (\*.[h/hpp]) should named in PascalCase.

## Headers VS Implementations

Headers files have the extension `.h` or `.hpp`. Once one of them is used, it should be standardised in the project and used for all header files.

Implementation files have the extension `.cpp`.

All publically available functions and classes should be mentioned in header files. Implementations of those classes members and functions should be written in a separate file with the same name as the header file but with the `.cpp` extension instead of `.[h/hpp]`.

The first line in a header should be `#pragma once` to stop recursive includes. Header guards using file name macros are discouraged for unneeded verbosity and namespace pollution. `#pragma once` is not a part of the C++ standard as of 2019 but it is supported across almost all C++ compilers.

## Namespace

Namespaces are good for encapsulation and separating concerns. However, we find namespaces to not work in cases when the domain they are encapsulating is too far away from the global namespace.

Long namespace names are discouraged, just like long identifiers.

Namespace trees should be kept as short as possible, if they are used at all.

## Inclusion (Optional)

A header file should not `#include` any other file in it. Such cases shall be handled by forwarding declarations likewise:
```cpp
// dog.h
class animal;

class dog : public animal
{
}
```
...instead of:
```cpp
// dog.h
#include “animal.h”

class dog : public animal
{
}
```

A translation unit (*.cpp) should always `#include` a header of the same name. Then, other header files can be included.

## Dependencies

C++ lacks a widely used package manager and we have made ways to work around it with the old-fashioned way.

All dependencies should exist in their separate folders inside a `vendor/` folder in the repository. Source code of the dependencies should be used when possible in `vendor/` along with their licenses. License compatibility should also be verified.

Dependencies can also be of the form of pre-built binaries (static, dynamic link or import libraries). In such a case when source code is not acquirable or will not be adapted for the project, dependency binaries should be put inside their `vendor/` folder, just like their “source code”.

## Build System

SDSLabs mainly uses the CMake build system for its projects. Alternative build systems are Makefile, and Visual Studio.

## Identifiers

The following formats of identifiers should be used.

| C++ Token              | Nomenclature |
|------------------------|--------------|
| Local Variable         | camelCase    |
| Function               | PascalCase   |
| Class/Struct           | PascalCase   |
| Member Variable        | m_PascalCase |
| Member Function        | camelCase    |
| Static Function        | PascalCase   |
| Static Member Variable | s_PascalCase |
| Enumeration Type       | PascalCase   |
| Enumerations           | PascalCase   |

Macros should always be ALL_CAPS.

## Declaration

Variable declarations should follow indecisive style for pointer types and multiple declarations in a single line are not allowed.

```cpp
// West style
int* number;

// East style
int *number;

// Indecisive
int * number;
```

## Memory Management

Use smart pointers to store memory addresses to dynamically heap allocation objects. Normally smart-pointers are typedef'd into more readable/accessible identifiers.

Use the `new` keyword only if you intent to store the result in a smart-pointer, or use RAII ("Resource Acquisition is Initialization").

Raw pointers should only be used while interacting with:

* Third-party C libraries
* Older third-party C++ libraries.
* Taking references to objects with no intent of owning the object

> Reference: Ownership of pointers in C++: http://www.stroustrup.com/resource-model.pdf

## Comments

Only `// Comments` are allowed in the codebase unless code inline documentation is in use (Doxygen).

Redundant comments are discouraged and are only required when the comments show information that is not apparent. Excessive explantory comments are seen as maintaince baggage and should be avoided at all costs.

Single comments should not be used for writing paragraphs.

## Style Inforcement

Use Allman style for opening braces.

All styles should be enforced through Clang-format or any similar toolchain.
